We're now ready to start
talking about the second set
of completion stage methods
used for our Completable Futures
rendition of the
ImageStreamGang example.
This method will be the
applyFiltersAsync method.
So this method is used to
asynchronously filter and store
downloaded images on
the local file system.
And as you can see here, this
method is called as a behavior
by the flatMap
intermediate operation.
What it will do is it will
go ahead and asynchronously
filter images and then
store them into files.
As before, if it
doesn't have anything
to work on-- if it turned
out that URL that was trying
to download was
already cached, it'll
just come in with an empty
optional image optional.
And it'll just be ignored.
So we just pass the
optionals down the stream.
And we just ignore them if
they have nothing to do.
Because we use
flatMap here, this
will flatten all the
filtered and stored images
into a single output stream.
So think about what's
happening here.
We're getting a stream
of CompletableFutures
to optional images, but
images we want to download
or are in the process
of being downloaded.
And for each image, we're going
to apply multiple filters.
So let's say, for sake of
argument, that for each image,
we have three filters to apply.
As long as everything
goes well, we're
going to end up with three
times the amount of output
from flatMap as we took as input
from the map operation that
came before.
So this is a good
example of where
we can have more output than
we got as input, because we're
going to be actually adding
things into the output stream.
It returns a stream
of CompletableFutures
to optional images, which
will have an actual value,
if the image is being
filtered and stored,
or will be empty if it's
already been cached--
same as before.
Here is applyFiltersAsync.
And this is a really interesting
use of CompletableFutures
and other features
in this design.
So its purpose is to
asynchronously filter images
and then store them into files.
What it does is it creates
a stream of all the filters
we want to apply to each image.
And these filters could be
things like embossed filter,
red-eye remove filter, removal
filter, sharper filter--
whatever filters
you might happen
to want to put in there--
sunshine filter-- whatever.
And we'll then end up
with a stream of filters.
And then for each
filter in the stream,
when the image future
completes-- in other words,
when we've finished
downloading the image--
we will then trigger the
thenApplyAsync completion stage
method.
And what that does is it
goes ahead and registers
the action shown here.
As always, that action is
not executed immediately.
But it will only run after
the image future completes
and, of course, there's a thread
available in the fork-joint
pool to run this action.
What this action does
is it takes a look
at the optional
image that it got.
And it uses its Map
method to see whether we
have to do any work at all.
If this was an optional
image for an image
that we'd already
cached, it'll be empty.
And so Map will be a noOpt.
If it's not empty,
then the Map method
will go ahead and run the
code, the lambda expression
that we passed in here.
And as you can see, what
this lambda expression does
is it takes the image
that has been downloaded
now and successfully
completed downloading
and it combines it
with the image filter.
And for each of those image
filter image combinations,
we run a function that makes
a filter decorated with image
and then executes it.
So we make a filter
decorated with the image.
And then we run that code.
That code is running
in a background
task in the fork-joint pool.
And that will go ahead
and filter the image,
change its bytes
and so on, and then
store it into an output file.
And if you look carefully
at the code implementation,
you'll see that this uses the
decorator pattern to decorate
the filters with some stuff
that knows how to store images.
And it's really cool.
So it's a good example of
applying the decorator pattern
in a parallel processing model.
As before, the action
that thenApplyAsync runs
occurs in the context
of whatever gets
returned from getExecutor,
which in our case
is set to the common
fork-joint pool,
but could easily be
changed because of the way
we programmed the solution.
What thenApplyAsync returns
is a CompletableFuture
that will trigger
when the image has
finished being
filtered and being
stored in the file system.
So we're going to
end up, basically,
with a bunch of
CompletableFutures.
And in fact, what happens here--
if you look carefully, there
is no terminal operation here.
So a stream is returned.
And we're going to return a
stream of CompletableFutures
to optional images that are in
the process of being filtered
and stored.
So that's pretty cool.
And the reason why
we get a stream here
is there's no call to collect.
There's no call to reduce.
There's no call to
for each or whatever.
We're going to return a stream.
And that's perfectly acceptable.
In fact, that's absolute
what we have to do here.
So we return a stream.
And then we're going to
rely on the next phase
in the stream, which is collect,
to trigger the processing.
So what flatMap returns
is this stream of futures
that come back from the
applyFiltersAsync method.
And it puts them all
into a single stream.
So you don't have a
stream of streams, which
we would get if we used Map.
Instead, we have a stream,
because we used flatMap.
And this stream, of course, will
then be processed by Collect,
as we'll talk about next.